README.md, before:

# HI-ER Readme

## Getting the Application
The application consists of many folders and files.  In order to allow multiple people to work on the HI-ER content, and for continued application development, the HI-ER is managed through a `git` repository.  `git` is a platform that allows for very powerful version control - it tracks changes and allows you to "commit" them and "push" your changes to a central repository so others can always see the latest work.  

Git needs to be installed on your machine.  You can download it [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

We will not be using many features of `git`, and since the number of people editing the HI-ER content will somewhat limited, it will be rare for you to need any advanced knowledge of how git works.

The initial step is to create a Github account - this website is the central repository for the HI-ER, and it is a private repository - you will need to be granted access before moving forward.  Create your account [here](https://github.com/join?source=header-home), and contact me (sfrees@intelliquip.com) for access.

Once you have access, open the Command Prompt and use the `cd` command to navigate to the directory you want to put the HI-ER application in. For example, create a directory called `C:\projects\`, and navigate the command prompt there by entering `cd C:\projects` at the command prompt.

Next, clone the repository with the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/edlpumps/hi-er.git
```

This will create a directory called `hi-er` under your `C:\projects` directory.

Later, as you begin to make changes to the HI-ER, you will need to use `git` to commit your changes.  The details of this is covered below in the "Version control with `git`" section.

## Text Editor - Visual Studio Code
While any text editor is suitable for creating the HI-ER content, you should use something geared towards programming, to avoid character encoding problems.  You may download and install this [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

Once installed, you can open the `hi-er` directory. 

Visual Studio Code allows you to open a folder - `hi-er` - which is the most efficient way of working.  This will give you a side panel on the left side of the screen that you can use to navigate and open any file in the directory structure.  

## Running code Locally

### Initialize Node JS and NPM in your Development environment
Follow instructions at: `https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/nodejs-tutorial`

Additional information can be found at: `https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/learn-nodejs-installing-node-nvm-and-vscode/`

Confirm npm is installed
```
$> npm --help
```

Confirm node js is installed
```
$> node --version
```

### Just one time, install the modules for your development environment:
In your VSC app and in a `powershell` terminal window:
```
$> npm init
$> npm install
$> npm audit fix <== if needed
```

## Local Database
You must be connected to a local Mongoose database
install MongoDB
install MongoDB Compass
create .env with:  
- MONGO_CONNECTION_DATA = mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/er 
- ADMIN_PASSWORD_OVERRIDE=test
You will need to have your user information in the database.
$>npm init
$>npm install
$>npm -g install supervisor
$>supervisor index.js


## Local Preview - Debugging
The easiest way to do your development is to execute the following command from the root project directory in a Terminal window:
```
$>  node index.js
```
OR to set breakpoints and debug:
```
Open index.js file in VSC
Click on the Debug icon on the left
Select Launch Program
Step through code
Use the debug toolbar to step into/over code
Use the debug toolbar to restart the code and stop execution
```

Connect to the localhost on port: 
```
http://127.0.0.1:3003
```

## Deploying a GitHub branch to Heroku
First, push the branch to GitHub and create a Pull Request.

Login to Heroku using the `higladetech@gmail.com` account on a browser:
```
https://heroku.com
Select the "intelliquip-hi/hi-er-beta" project (make sure that it is NOT in Maintenance mode in the Settings)
Select Deploy
Select Deply a GitHub branch and enter the branch name
```

## Deploying GitHub Master branch to Heroku
Make sure all branches are merged to `master` on GitHub.

Follow the steps above to Deploy a GitHub branch to Heroku, but instead, select the `intelliquip-hi/hi-er` project and deploy the `master` branch.

Commit message:

Update search order for Pumps & Circulators

README.md, after:

# HI-ER Readme

## Getting the Application
The application consists of many folders and files.  In order to allow multiple people to work on the HI-ER content, and for continued application development, the HI-ER is managed through a `git` repository.  `git` is a platform that allows for very powerful version control - it tracks changes and allows you to "commit" them and "push" your changes to a central repository so others can always see the latest work.  

Git needs to be installed on your machine.  You can download it [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

We will not be using many features of `git`, and since the number of people editing the HI-ER content will somewhat limited, it will be rare for you to need any advanced knowledge of how git works.

The initial step is to create a Github account - this website is the central repository for the HI-ER, and it is a private repository - you will need to be granted access before moving forward.  Create your account [here](https://github.com/join?source=header-home), and contact me (sfrees@intelliquip.com) for access.

Once you have access, open the Command Prompt and use the `cd` command to navigate to the directory you want to put the HI-ER application in. For example, create a directory called `C:\projects\`, and navigate the command prompt there by entering `cd C:\projects` at the command prompt.

Next, clone the repository with the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/edlpumps/hi-er.git
```

This will create a directory called `hi-er` under your `C:\projects` directory.

Later, as you begin to make changes to the HI-ER, you will need to use `git` to commit your changes.  The details of this is covered below in the "Version control with `git`" section.

## Text Editor - Visual Studio Code
While any text editor is suitable for creating the HI-ER content, you should use something geared towards programming, to avoid character encoding problems.  You may download and install this [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

Once installed, you can open the `hi-er` directory. 

Visual Studio Code allows you to open a folder - `hi-er` - which is the most efficient way of working.  This will give you a side panel on the left side of the screen that you can use to navigate and open any file in the directory structure.  

## Running code Locally

### Initialize Node JS and NPM in your Development environment
Follow instructions at: `https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/nodejs-tutorial`

Additional information can be found at: `https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/learn-nodejs-installing-node-nvm-and-vscode/`

Confirm npm is installed
```
$> npm --help
```

Confirm node js is installed
```
$> node --version
```

### Just one time, install the modules for your development environment:
In your VSC app and in a `powershell` terminal window:
```
$> npm init
$> npm install
$> npm audit fix <== if needed
```

## Local Database
You must be connected to a local Mongoose database
install MongoDB
install MongoDB Compass
create .env with:  
- MONGO_CONNECTION_DATA = mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017/er 
- ADMIN_PASSWORD_OVERRIDE=test

You will need to have your user information in the database.

If MongoDB Compass is running but it won't connect to the local database:
- Open Task Manager
- Click on the Services tab
- Make sure MongoDB Server is running


## Local Preview - Debugging
The easiest way to do your development is to execute the following command from the root project directory in a Terminal window:
```
$>  node index.js
```
OR to set breakpoints and debug:
```
Open index.js file in VSC
Click on the Debug icon on the left
Select Launch Program
Step through code
Use the debug toolbar to step into/over code
Use the debug toolbar to restart the code and stop execution
```
To monitor for code changes while running index.js, install `supervisor`:
```
$>npm init
$>npm install
$>npm -g install supervisor
```
Then run the code using `supervisor`:
```
$>supervisor index.js
```
Connect to the localhost on port: 
```
http://127.0.0.1:3003
```

## Deploying a GitHub branch to Heroku
First, push the branch to GitHub and create a Pull Request.

Login to Heroku using the `higladetech@gmail.com` account on a browser:
```
https://heroku.com
Select the "intelliquip-hi/hi-er-beta" project (make sure that it is NOT in Maintenance mode in the Settings)
Select Deploy
Select Deply a GitHub branch and enter the branch name
```

## Deploying GitHub Master branch to Heroku
Make sure all branches are merged to `master` on GitHub.

Follow the steps above to Deploy a GitHub branch to Heroku, but instead, select the `intelliquip-hi/hi-er` project and deploy the `master` branch.


## Generate README.PDF
- Make sure the `Markdown PDF` extension is installed on Visual Studio Code (Author yzane).
- Open the README.md file
- Press the 'F1' key
- Select the `Markdown PDF` extension (or search for it).
The README.pdf file will automatically be generated.
